---
title: DigitalOcean Marketplace Prerequisites
description: Prerequisites for installation of Kubefirst with the DigitalOcean Marketplace
keywords: [digitalocean, requirements, kubernetes, containers, clusters, kubefirst, konstruct] 
sidebar_position: 1
---

## Summary

This document walks through the prerequisites for installing **Kubefirst using DigitalOcean Marketplace and the Kubefirst UI**.

## Why Use DigitalOcean Marketplace to Install?

_We recommend using DigitalOcean Marketplace to install Kubefirst for users who:_

    - Don’t want to host Kubefirst on their local machine
    - Don’t have a local machine with sufficient resources to support an installation
    - May have connectivity issues that would interfere with installation

## Install Assumptions

Before getting started make sure you are aware of the following:

- We assume that you already have a DigitalOcean Cloud account and credentials.
- We assume you have a Git organization (in either GitLab or GitHub) that is free to use for this installation.
- We are assuming you have never installed Kubefirst or Kubefirst Pro before.
  - If you have previously installed Kubefirst or Kubefirst Pro you will need to remove the ~/.k1 folder, the ~/.kubefirst file, and anything related to k3d in Docker for the steps, as they’re outlined here, to be successful.
- We’re going to use your personal account for GitHub or GitLab as an admin and associate it with the bot that we use to build automation. This is faster but it also means that if you want to continue beyond just “testing it out” there are additional steps required to establish an independent bot account for the system to use. _The bot is yours to run, configure, or remove and we do not store information on our servers._

## Prerequisites

Before getting started with this installation there are several things you will need to have set up to successfully complete the installation.

:::info

These instructions assume you don’t already have a cluster that you want to use to install Kubefirst.

:::

### Homebrew

The commands we provide here assume you are [using Homebrew.](https://brew.sh/)

### DigitalOcean Components

#### DigitalOcean Account

A DigitalOcean account with administrative access.

#### DigitalOcean CLI

Run the following command to install the DigitalOcean CLI.

    ```bash
    brew install doctl
    ```

Learn more [about the DigitalOcean CLI](https://docs.digitalocean.com/reference/doctl/).

### Kubectl

The instructions below also use `kubectl`. Run the following brew command to install

    ```bash
    brew install kubernetes-cli
    ```

### Git Provider (GitHub or GitLab)

After provisioning your installer cluster you will need to have domain details for your preferred Git provider for your management cluster. We support GitHub and GitLab.

- Organization name/Group name
- Personal Access token
- Username

[Check out our instructions](/docs/admin/git-tokens.md) for details (including scopes/permissions) on creating your git token.

### DNS

Kubefirst assumes that you will use your cloud provider for DNS. We also support Cloudflare, refer to the details below.

For information on DigitalOcean [check out their documentation on adding DNS.](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/networking/dns/)

#### Cloudflare (Optional for DNS)

If you prefer to use Cloudflare as your DNS provider:

- Create a dedicated Cloudflare user account
- Create a user token with read and write access to your registered zone. _This token will be required during installation._

Refer to the [Cloudflare documentation for user token creation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) for additional details.

### `mkcert` Certificate Authority

:::tip

This is not an optional step: the cluster creation will fail if you don't install the mkcert CA in your trusted store.

:::

We use [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert) to generate local certificates and serve `https` with the Traefik Ingress Controller. During the installation, Kubefirst generates these certificates and pushes them to Kubernetes as secrets to attach to Ingress resources.

To allow the applications running in your Kubefirst platform, in addition to your browser, to trust the certificates generated by your Kubefirst install, you need to install the CA (Certificate Authority) of `mkcert` in your trusted store.

Run the following command to install `mkcert`.

    ```shell
    brew install mkcert
    mkcert -install
    ```

For Firefox, you will also need to install [Network Security Services](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/security/nss/index.html) (NSS):

    ```shell
    brew install nss
    ```

## Known Limitations

Installation of Kubefirst using DigitalOcean marketplace has the following known limitations

### Let's Encrypt Certificate Rate Limit

Kubefirst uses [Let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) to automatically create certificates for your domains. Let's encrypt is limited to 50 weekly certificates with an additional limitation of 5 per subdomain. In some scenarios you may reach that limit if you often create and destroy Kubefirst clusters using the same domain during a short period. You can use the [Let's Debug Toolkit](https://tools.letsdebug.net/cert-search) to check those, but note that the result isn't always valid.

Cloudflare DNS with origin certificates is an alternative method that allows unlimited certificate creation if this limit impacts you.

## Getting Support

If you’re not sure this is the best method of installation for you, or you started the install and ran into issues, or if you have a question about the process and don’t see it mentioned here, we've got you covered. [Join our Slack Community](https://konstructio.slack.com/) for support and get the answers you need!
